---
layout: post
categories: Research
title: "YOLO9000: Better, Faster, Stronger - Notes"
author: xiaoyuliu
date: Wed Apr 19 10:26:12 2017
tag:
- detection
---

YOLO2 is a real-time object detection and classification system jointly trained on object detection and classification, which allows it to predict detections for object class that don't have labelled detection data.

### Shortage of YOLO

0. Significant localization error: Because there's no training aiming at improving localization accuracy.
1. Relatively low recall

Therefore, recall and localization accuray are two main improvements.

### Improvement(Trick)

0. Use anchor boxes to predict bounding boxes and remove fully connected layers to predict offsets based on each anchor box at every location instead of coordinates. The latter approach is easier to learn for the network. 
    - `Slightly worse mAP while much better recall`
1. Increase input image size to **416x416** and do downsample of 32 to get an output feature map of **13x13**. The reason to get an odd number of locations is there will be a single center cell.
2. No class and objectness prediction for every anchor box, objectness prediction is based on IOU of ground truth and proposed boxes, class prediction is the **conditional probability** of that class given that there is an object.
3. Do box dimensions clustering to provide better priors. 
    - `More centroids lead to much higher average IOU`
4. Constrain box localizations by predicting location coordinates relative to the location of the grid cell.
    - `Improve 5% with 3 together`
5. Concatenate the higher resolution features with the low one by stacking adjacent features into different channels(**the result generated from the higher resolution feature map will have same spatial dimension with the low resolution feature map but bigger number of channels**). Improve localization for smaller objects.
    - `1% performance increase`

### Question

**How does ImageNet help in the network? Except increasing its vocabulary? How does it help to improve robutness?**

I don't think ImageNet is helpful for localization at all, because when the network meets a classfication image, it only backpropogates on classification error.





